---
layout: post
title: Start Digital Signal Processing
date: 2019-08-15
---



# Start Digital Signal Processing

I had no idea about what DSP is before I took it. I learned 'Signal and System' when I was in school, but it's almost ten years ago. Signal and System is more about analog signals, indeed, electricity generation and transmission are all analog signal processing. I know transient state, steady state, a little Fourier transform and Laplace transform. But I really don't know digital filters, the use of differential equations, DFT, etc. Anyway, I don't have many choice in summer, so I took it.

I find something exciting when I start to read the textbook. First, Everyone knows the Artificial Intelligence is the future, Machine Learning is the way of tomorrow.  Machines learn something from information, but they are not like humans brain, they are picky and dumb. We must do signal processing so that we can give machine information that is understandable for it and good enough. There are many algorithms to make the information more valuable. So, signal processing is came up. Furthermore, we have no doubt that digital signals are much more popular than analog signals in terms of many ways, for many years. Second, DSP is widely used in many industries, communication, image and video processing, medical care and diagnosis. Last semester, I took 'Broadcast signal transmission', I did it well, but it's just a understanding of wireless communication and a brief system design, I don't really understand the details of many techniques. For example, modulation, encoding, or match filter. They are all DSP related topics. So, DSP is gonna help me to understand them.

I heard from someone says DSP course is tough, it is a well known tough course in signal processing area in ECE program. I don't know what it is before I start to read the book. But I'm kind of confident about it, because I've been no problem with last two semesters' three courses, computer architecture, communication networks, and broadcast communication, all of them are totally new for me, but finally I did them well. The same thing to DSP, I think.

Another reason I like DSP is, it's programming related. I've checked the project of previous semester, it's about voice processing, 'Adaptive Noise Cancellation Digital Signal Processing'. Speech recognition is not new for us, we already have effective equipments to do this job, smart phone, or blue tooth speaker, etc. It will be more popular and widely used in the future. I think it's cool to do this project. However, in the first class our professor told us we don't have project for this session since it's summer term, there is no much time to do a project. Instead, we have five Matlab assignments which are DSP topics related. It's OK, Matlab assignment is also cool. I started to use Matlab from last semester, so out of date I am. We didn't need to use it when I was in undergraduate. There was optional Matlab class at that time, but I was not interested in it because I was really practical things oriented. Matlab doesn't help me to work in electricity power grid. Besides, I thought it was scared because I had never use a programming language except C as a beginner. Now it becomes necessary for all engineering fields. Even though I still didn't need it in my job. We didn't need a lot of things we've got from school. But, these things have their value. Matlab is more useful, I didn't realize its power before I start to use it. Hopefully, I start to use it. It's a programming language. I learned C in school, very rudimentary. Now I want to learn more programming skills, I didn't know I would start from Matlab. From the experience of last semester, the Matlab project is not difficult, I had a good start with Matlab. From DSP, I hope I can have a further knowledge about Matlab, and programming. Like I said, DSP is programming related, algorithm related, more precisely.  We want to use program to do something, the principles are from DSP, the processing is by micro-processor and program, I think that's why a developer have to keep learning. They have tools, which are knowledge of computer, data structure, programming languages, if they want to use these tools to solve problems, they must learn different algorithms, so they need to keep learning. 

One more thing I find is, DSP is math, Fourier Transform, Z-transform, differential equations, approximation, etc. I'd like to review these things because I'm sort of missing them. Every time I've got to know something about math, then I lost them again. Now I'm gonna find them a little bit.
